# Airbnb_Price_Prediction_Mexico
Machine Learning implementation to predict prices in R

## Abstract

The Airbnb platform provides users with the option of renting their vacant spaces as tourist accommodations and competing with the traditional accommodation enterprises. However, since Airbnb gives the user the freedom to establish the price of their listing, a challenge is placed on the owner to determine the most appropriate number. This paper analyses the information from listings in Mexico City to determine how the listing attributes can be used as predictors for a new listing’s price. The paper presents statistical analysis and data mining techniques to analyse the information scraped from Airbnb’s website and publicly available at the Inside Airbnb webpage. With this analysis we found : (1) The entire home accommodations are the most popular Aibnb’s listings in Mexico City; (2) The average daily price of a listing is MXN $991.80; (3) The most expensive Airbnb listings in Mexico City are located in the neighborhood “Miguel Hidalgo”; (4) The time of the year where the listings are busier is in mid July, and the prices have a spike in the holidays of the Day of the Dead, the Battle of Puebla and the Revolution Day; (5) The most important features for price determinants are the number of accommodates accepted, number of bedrooms, number of beds, guests included, and number of bathrooms. Additionally, an experiment was made to compare a quantile regression, logistic regression and a generalized additive model to find the most suitable technique for predicting an Airbnb listing’s price. The models were compared based on residual standard error, R squared and AIC. The results show that the generalized additive model provides the best fit for the data since it explains 60% of the variance.
